{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf380
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;
\f3\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww11820\viewh8580\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 \
COMM MEX-file\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \

\f0\b Introduction\

\f1\b0 \
This MEX-file provides MATLAB access to Mac serial ports such as the modem and IrDa port, and add-on ports, such as USB to serial adapters. It has been tested with MacOS X 10.4 and MATLAB 7.1.\
\
\

\f0\b Installation\
\

\f1\b0 Drag the MEX-file 
\f2 comm.mexmac
\f1  and the help file 
\f2 comm.m
\f1  to a folder in your MATLAB path. \
\
\

\f0\b Usage
\f1\b0 \
\
If possible, test the MEX-file with a built-in port first. On my Powerbook, the built-in modem is port 2. (Note, the built-in ports are slow to open for some reason.)\
\

\f2 >> comm('open',1,'19200,e,7,1')	% 19200 baud, even parity, 7 bits, 1 stop bit\
Opened device: '/dev/cu.modem'\
>> comm('write',1,['AT' 13])		% terminate the command with a CR\
ans =\
     3\
>> comm('readl',1)				% read the first line\
ans =\
AT\
>> comm('readl',1)				% read the second line\
ans =\
OK\
>> comm('close',1)				% done with the port\

\f1 \
The association between port number and the actual device could be improved. Port numbers are assigned in the order in which the IOKit discovers serial devices. On my system, the port order appears to be alphabetical. You will have to experiment to find the port number of your device. All available devices can be listed in a Terminal.app window:\
\

\f2 [localhost:~] tom% ls /dev/cu*
\f1 \

\f2 \

\f1 It's a long list. On my system, the serial devices are:\

\f2 \
	cu.modem				port=1 (built-in modem)\
	cu.usbserial			port=2 (BAFO BF-810 USB to serial adaptor)\
	cu.Bluetooth-PDA-Sync	port=3 (built-in Bluetooth)\

\f1 \
\

\f0\b USB-Serial adapters\

\f1\b0 \
For talking to external serial devices, I'm using a Bafo Technologies BF-810 USB to serial port adaptor which cost about $20 at Fry's. This adaptor, and others, use the PL-2303 chip made by Prolific Technology Inc. This chip may also be found in some GPS units and cell phones where it's used to bridge to a legency serial port.\
\
Expect adaptors from Keyspan to have much better support but to be more expensive.\
\
\

\f0\b Xcode project
\f1\b0 \
\
I have included the Xcode project used to develop the MEX-file. The code is based heavily on Apple's SerialPortSample example. The last two lines in the "Shell Script Files" in the target Build Phases copy the built files to a directory in my MATLAB path. You may want to modify or delete these lines. \
\
The project assumes that the Developer Tools and MATLAB are named and installed in the standard locations: 
\f2 /Developer
\f1  and 
\f2 /Applications/MATLAB
\f1 .  Here are the versions the project has been tested with:\
\
Mac OS X 10.4.6\
\
MATLAB Version 7.1 SP3\
\
Xcode Version 2.2.1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f3\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Caveats and Limitations
\f1\b0 \
\
The MEX-file has not been extensively tested or used. If you find a bug, and especially if you find a fix, please report it so that I can update this package.\
\
Ports 1 through 8 are supported. Internal buffer sizes are 4096 bytes. Thus writes of data longer than 4096 will fail and data will be lost if the device writes more than 4096 bytes between any two reads.\
\
\

\f0\b Revision History
\f1\b0 \
\
1.0 Initial release.\
\
1.1 Recompiled for Tiger. Updated Xcode project for MATLAB 7.1 and Xcode 2.2.1. Added correct complier switches to Xcode project so MATLAB does not abort when calling 
\f4\fs20 \CocoaLigature0 mexErrMsgTxt. 
\f1\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 The included MEX-file is built from the MATLAB command line: 
\f4\fs20 \CocoaLigature0  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 >> mex comm.c serialPort.c\CocoaLigature1 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Tom Davis\
tomldavis@comcast.net\
}